Docs for run templates (#3028)
zenml-io/zenml: docs/book/how-to/create-and-run-templates/run-a-template.md

---
description: From a template to a pipeline run
---

# Run a template

{% hint style="success" %}
This is a [ZenML Pro](https://zenml.io/pro)-only feature. Please
[sign up here](https://cloud.zenml.io) to get access.
{% endhint %}

Once your template is set up, you can **run** it and create a new pipeline run 

> that will be conducted on the same stack. Before it starts, you have a window
> to seamlessly readjust the configuration of your pipelines and steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that will be conducted on the same stack. Before it starts, you have the option
to modify the configuration of your pipeline and steps.
```

## Run a template using the Python SDK

You can use the ZenML client to run a template:

```python
from zenml.client import Client

> template = Client().get_run_template("TEMPLATE_NAME")

Reviewer: I'm not sure why the `<>` was removed, but isn't that at least better to show that it's a placeholder and not just a string?

Author: This new format has no Pythonic errors, so I can use my auto-formatting to fix the format of the code even in the docs. Having any `<>`s in the code messes it up completely and it formats in a very weird way. That's why I usually use `""` and capital letters as a convenience. I can change it back though if you want.

Reviewer: I mean there is not much to format here 😄 
Or make it "<...>", but all of that is worse IMO, because users will just copy-paste, it will run and then fail with a key error.

config = template.config_template

# [OPTIONAL] ---- modify the config here ----

Client().trigger_pipeline(
    template_id=template.id,
    run_configuration=config,
)
```

## Run a template using the dashboard

In order to run a template from the dashboard:

- You can either click `Run a Pipeline` on the main `Pipelines` page, or
- You can go to a specific template page and click on `Run Template`.

Either way, you will be forwarded to a page where you will see the 
`Run Details`. Here, you have the option to upload a `.yaml` [configurations
file](https://docs.zenml.io/how-to/use-configuration-files) or change the 

> configuration on the go by using our editor **(powered with auto-completion and 

Reviewer: The auto completion is not really working for anyone writing normal yaml right now

Author: Not sure if I get it correctly what you mean by `normal yaml`. How can I rephrase this to fit the current state of the implementation?
